---
layout: post
title: So angry
---

I just learned of <a
href="http://www.buzzfeed.com/alisonvingiano/a-female-game-developer-had-to-flee-after-her-address-was-po#1wi482r">
Brianna Wu having been driven from her home</a>.  During lunch today I
did a poor job of explaining gamergate to my colleagues, and because
of thinking about this I have been in a bad mood all afternoon.

Before I became a software developer I was a mathematician.  Also not
the most diverse occupation to be in.  Having been in that "industry"
and sideways involved with hiring, and directly involved with
accepting (or not) of graduate students, positive discrimination, and
just the general difficulty of actually having to judge people for
making the cut or not.  I have tried to form real opinions on how to
deal with minorities in math, or minorities in development (with
minority used here in its meaning of not the majority, i.e. not the
group of white males).

To a large extend I have tried and failed.  In some ways the issues
are simple; everyone is to be treated equally.  In other ways the
issues are incredibly hard; how do you deal with years and years of
discrimination?  Just treating equally doesn't quite seem to cut it,
but not treating equally also is clearly wrong (it is unfortunate, but
there are several cases of positive discrimination gone wrong that I
am aware of).

So I have failed.  I have not yet come up with a coherent and
satisfying set of ideas to deal with this situation.  Nothing new
there, I fail at stuff all the time.  One might say, looking at my
track record, that failing at stuff is one of my most practiced skill.
But failing, and trying again, is the only way to at some point not
fail.  Hence I keep at it.

John Siracusa gave a "recipe" for understanding the issue better in a
recent episode of ATP.  I have been following part of this recipe, and
in particular have been listening to isometric.  The immediate
consequence of this is that now I have some sort of connection to the
person this has happened to (I listen to her talk on my ipod with some
regularity).

Not being able to form a complete opinion on diversity, or how to
improve it, does not leave me without reasonably considered parts of
opinions.  Clearly diversity is a good thing.  Clearly diversity is
desirable.  Clearly treating eachother pleasantly is a good thing.
Clearly making threaths is a bad thing.  Clearly if you are part of
treating someone in such a way they reasonably fear for their lives
and have to leave their houses is a terrible thing.  Clearly anyone
who participated in this needs to go to prison for some time.

I can only hope that Brianna will get through this well.  She is in my
thoughts.  I wish, and will look out for, more constructive things to
do.  For now I am just really very angry that the technologies I enjoy
and love get abused for such twisted purposes.