---
layout: post
title: Follow me on Twitter
---

There are posts on the internet that describe A/B testing of different
phrases to get people to follow you on twitter<sup>&dagger;1</sup>.  I
find it fascinating to read how effects of small changes can be quite
beyond what I expected<sup>&dagger;2</sup>.

In the May issue of the Communications of the ACM the editor's letter
ends with "Follow me on Facebook, Google+, and Twitter".  In the
context of the above I really hope at some point to get some data
about his twitter followers over time and see how this affected the
count.  I certainly experienced a bid surprise when I read it, and I
can imagine that this surprise in other people lead to them following
him.

I did not follow him.  Not because I don't think his streams are
interesting, also not because the surprise I described above was not
only a pleasant surprise, but because I have recently deleted my
Twitter and Facebook accounts.  I would do the same with my Google+
account, but Google has for the moment made this hard since this
account is tied in with an email address where I still occasionally
receive an email.

The question that his asking us to follow him everywhere brought into
my mind most was "Why?"; why do you want us to follow you?

These services certainly have a certain appeal.  The idea that you
have people interested enough in what you have to say in 140
characters or less is clearly attractive.  At various times I have
tried to make an interesting stream as well.

The effect of this efforts were always interesting.  Not to any
readers I don't think, but to myself.  Occasionally, and mostly
accidentally, I'll have an interesting observation.  When this would
happen I would mull over how I could make a nice tweet out of this

    @XXX follow you on twitter, why?

    @XXX follow you on twitter, why do you care?

    @XXX follow you on twitter, facebook, and google+; can't I just camp out at your house and see it all in real time?

and so on.  Sometimes this resulted in what I still find an enjoyable
tweet<sup>&dagger;3</sup>.

    Caught speeding for the first time today, 30 mph over; like my mom used to say, if you do something, do it well.

So the effect is that I really started practicing writing my
observations in 140 characters or less, and in a funny way.  Turns
out, on careful reflection, that this is not actually a skill I care
about.  It is a skill I could become a lot better at then I am now,
but, so what?

When this observation lead me to decide that I was not going to be an
active participant in these services; the next step was also easy.
How much time does it take, and what do I get out of it by being a
passive participant?  Occasionally a great link would show up on
Twitter, occasionally I learned something cool/interesting/important
had happened to people I know on facebook; but in the end the time it
takes to keep up did not feel well spend.  And then the conclusion is
easy, delete, delete, delete.

------------------------------------------------------------

&dagger;1: The one by Dustin Curtis I think of in particular seems to
have been removed.

&dagger;2: I did not think before completing the articles about what I
expected, so this is a retroactive expectation and might be colored by
the fact that I rather enjoy the surprise.

&dagger;3: as I deleted my twitter account I am rewriting this from
memory, so likely only somewhat similar to the original.