---
layout: post
title: Uses this
---

The website [The Setup](http://usesthis.com/) gets lots of people to
answer a fixed set of four questions about their setup.  I find it
fascinating to not just see what people use, but also what they think
about it.

Here I will give my answers to these questions.  None of the hardware,
software, or my opinions about them should be expected to be stable.
Chances are I'll redo a post like this occasionally.



# Who are you, and what do you do?

I am Bart Kastermans, a mathematician and software developer.  I was
an academic until 2012 when I decided to pursue a new career in
information technology.  Currently I work as a data scientist for
Adgoji in Amsterdam.

So I analyse data, and learn statistics and sofware development while
I am at it.



# What hardware to you use?

My computer is a 13-inch MacBook Air (8GB ram, 256 GB ssd).  I use an
iPad Air (16 GB) for reading books and pdfs.  My phone is an iPhone 4S
(16 GB).

I have a yubikey for a second factor with lastpass.

At home I use Sennheiser HD 595 headphones, which b/c they are open
can't be used reasonably in the office.  For in the office and on the
train I have Shure SE 215 which keep noise out, which then with
playing some music really keeps distractions out.

I have a logitech Anywhere MX mouse both at home and at the office.
This is by far the most pleasant mouse I have found.  I would prefer a
wired mouse to avoid the battery issues, but never found one that I
like as much as this one.  Also b/c I use both hands with the mouse
(not at the same time) I need it symmetric, which many mice are not.



# And what software?

On the phone I ahve the Reisplanner (app from the train company in the
Netherlands to check times and platforms), some other travel related
apps, some messaging crap, a timer, music, lastpass and pcalc.  Of
those the only one that makes me happy is pcalc.  This is a really
pleasant calculator app.

The Reisplanner is needed b/c the NS (the train company) messes up
regularly, and then after that seems really bad at communicating.  The
app seems so far to usually have up to date information on how to deal
with things.

The other travel apps are for parking, car2go, and navigation.  The
navigation is rather useful, and it is really cool that when you are
in an area where the maps are no good you can just look at sattelite
images to figure things out.

All this together makes for a really useful device, that I'd still
rather do without.

On the tablet I use the Kindle app, Papers 3, Pcalc, OmniFocus, and
Downcast.  The abilities they give me of carying lots of reading
material around, and having an acceptable interface to read it, I
really enjoy.  The form factor of a tablet works really well for me
for reading in a comfy chair at home, or in public transport.

On the latop I use a lot of software, I'll just mention some of it.
There is the companion apps to the Papers app on my iPad, used for
getting the pdfs in there and organised (this also requires me to use
dropbox for synching this to my tablet).

Most of my typing is into emacs, but I also use RStudio, Eclipse, and
am experimenting a little with sublime text.  Emacs works really well,
but b/c I am not blind I would like something that is more pleasant on
my eyes.  The combination with tmux is really hard to beat though.

I also use omnifocus on my laptop.  I'd prefer to use org-mode because
the information would be more easily accessible, but a pleasant clear
GUI on top of it makes it work better for me.

For diffing I use kaleidoscope, setup for use when I do e.g. `git
difftool`, b/c it makes it much easier to see what happened than
looking at a normal diff, or worse the github diff interface.

I use Thunderbird for my email. The app I use doesn't matter to me too
much, my main email management strategy is to try to get as few emails
as possible.  The other part complementing this strategy is that I
don't try to keep email.  The google strategy of keeping all mail and
making a decent search for it is a nice idea, but just getting rid of
everything unless it is clear I might need it again in the future
works even better.

In my menubar I have bartender for managing the icons.  I have
menumeters and little snitch for seeing what my computer is up to.
And Hazel for helping me do the gardening my harddisk needs.

Finally, I want to mention Theodore Gray's The Elements.  A lovely
modern imagining of the periodic table.



# What would be your dream setup?

I would like for the things I use to be much more reliable.  I have
very little need for more features, but lots of desire for not having
to mess with the stuff I have in ways I do not enjoy.  Trying to
figure out why my wifi is slow is not something I enjoy, mucking about
with a visualisation the whole day I do.

Also documentation should be much better.  Spending time on figuring
something out that someone already long knows how to do, and is not of
core importance to what you are doing, is just a big waste.  By no
means do I mean to imply that I am perfect with my documentation, but
I certainly am finding it worth more and more of my time.

I would also like a lot faster internet.  Because harddisk space and
computing power is always limited working with a service like amazon
web services for keeping data and firing up the compute power needed
works great.  But because of some limitations with this I do want to
work with data locally sometimes.  I'd be great if that didn't take
much time.  Also very fast loading times of webpages, and unnoticible
latency to servers would make it easier to stay in the flow.

Having said that however, the real important improvements should be
achieved on the other side of the keyboard.  I am working on better
diet and exercise to have more energy and maitain my focus much
longer.  I do quite well, I think, but my hardware or software are not
the main restriction on what I can achieve.