Trying to install tarsnap I run into some issues with not being able to find
the right openssl libraries.  Here follows some information on the state of
my system when it happened, and what solved it.

    $ brew install openssl
    Warning: openssl is a keg-only and another version is linked to opt.
    Use `brew install --force` if you want to install this version

The following is the preinstalled OS X system openssl

    $ which openssl
    /usr/bin/openssl

This apparently doesn't come with the headers as needed to compile tarsnap.
Since the correct version, with libraries, has been installed on the system, we
only need to make configure aware of this.  In `/usr/opt/local` we find the
`openssl` directory that contains the right `lib` and `include` directories.
These are the versions installed by brew:

    $ pwd
    /usr/local/opt
    $ ls -l
    ...
    lrwxr-xr-x 1 kasterma admin 24 Oct  9 10:13 openssl -> ../Cellar/openssl/1.0.2j
    ...

The following is the configure command with arguments to make it aware of the
libraries in these locations.

    ./configure CFLAGS="-I/usr/local/opt/openssl/include" LDFLAGS="-L/usr/local/opt/openssl/lib"

After this, `make all` and `sudo make install` succeeded.

The pages on tarsnap.com where to download and find the instructions for the
compiling (which with the above addition work for me):

- https://www.tarsnap.com/download.html
- https://www.tarsnap.com/compiling.html

Finally the basic usage of tarsnap for me is through the following shell script:

    #!/usr/bin/env bash

    set -x

    tarsnap -c -f "dropbox-$(date +%Y-%m-%d)" /Users/kasterma/Dropbox/
    tarsnap -c -f "documents-$(date +%Y-%m-%d)" /Users/kasterma/Documents/
    tarsnap -c -f "org-$(date +%Y-%m-%d)" /Users/kasterma/org/
